---
title: Concept Note
tags:
  - Research
keywords: Research, Concept note, Step in Research
date:
  - 2025-08-23
draft: "false"
image: /Resources/Research.jpg
---
## Concept Note???
Just Imagine you wanna pitch an idea of your research in brief and concise manner, so how do you present it??? 

`Concept Note`

Primarily, Concept note is a brief, preliminary outline of a research project. It is done to show the core idea of the research, the questions asked, the methods to be used, implications and the interest of the research from a birds eye view.

Writing a detailed proposal (Research Proposal) may be in vain if the study has not properly defined, does not have a strong bearing or of significant impact. So, go for a concept note and upon the approval of an expert in the field, a research proposal may be done.

A concept note will give an early feedback, save time and clarify ideas.

| Feature           | Proposal                          | Concept Note                                         |
| ----------------- | --------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| Length            | Short (1-3 pages)                 | Long(10-25 pages)                                    |
| Purpose           | Introduction and approval of idea | Detailed blueprint and timeline of the project       |
| Detail            | Summary                           | Comprehensive / In depth                             |
| Literature review | Brief Mention of Knowledge gap    | Extensive and critical review of existing literature |

Structure:

1. Authors Details
2. Brief Description of the concept
3. Research Tentative Title
4. Research Problem Statement
5. Research Aim and Questions
6. Brief Lit review
7. Theoretical Framework
8. Proposed Methodology
9. Contribution and significance
10. References

How to write the Problem Statement?
 The answer should explain the so what condition??

Example: "Despite significant investment in digital transformation, many traditional retail firms are failing to achieve projected ROI, leading to financial strain and competitive disadvantage"

How to write a Research Aim???
- Broad statement about what the research hopes to accomplish overall.

Example: "The aim of this research is to investigate the critical success factors for implementing digital transformation in traditional retail".

Research Questions
- Specific, Focused and answerable questions that guide you in the process of research.

Example:
"What organizational leadership styles best support digital transformation?"

Brief Literature Review:
- should contain key academic and industry literature establish the base of research
- should show the your awareness on the research gap and how you will fill the gap.

Theoretical Framework:
- Intellectual Framework to view the problem.
- selection of one or more research theories or models to guide your study,
- Porter's 5 forces, Resource Based View, Agency Theory etc.

Contribution and significance:
- impact of your research:
1. Theoretical : how the research will expand the existing body of knowledge.
2. Practical / Managerial: how findings will help managers to make better decisions or practices.
3. Policy: How it will impact government regulations or industry standards.

