---
title: Exam 5 Basics
tags:
  - Actuarial
date:
  - 2026-02-13
keywords:
description:
---
Basics: Part 1.

Overview of Pricing:
- Any Product sold in the world comes with a price. The same applies to the world of Insurance, in which actuaries generally work. The Pricing in any industry is designed using the following equation.

$Price = Cost+Profit$

Insurance industry has a salient feature, i.e., in any other industry we probably know the cost of the product before making a sale, but in insurance the cost is only known after the product is sold, thus the process of pricing in insurance is fairly complex.

The price of an insurance product is known as premium. its a small portion of the coverage value. (typically bw 5% to  10%). To determine the price of the product, insurance companies use a document called the `rating manual`, the end goal or the essence of rate making.

The better you assess the risk factors, the better your pricing mechanism.

There are 4 types of premiums:
- Written Premium: the total premium of all policies issued in a period.
- Earned Premium: the amount of written premium for which coverage has been provided.
- Unearned Premium: the amount of written premium for which coverage has not been provided.
- In-force Premium: the full term premium for active policies as on a given point in time.

Exposure:
- basic unit of risk that underlies the insurance policy. Different lines of business use different measures for exposure.
- Personal auto uses: car years, no of cars * no of years of insurance.
- Workers compensation: annual payroll.

There are 4 types of exposure:
- Written Exposure:
- Earned Exposure:
- Unearned Exposure:
- In-force Exposure:

Claim:
A request to pay for an insured loss is called a claim. The person filing the claim is called the claimant. The date of loss is the day in which the accident happened. The date of loss need necessarily be the date the loss was reported. 
- Point to Learn: What are long tail lines of business and short tail lines of business.

Claims that have not yet been reported are known as unreported claims or Incurred but not reported. 


Loss:
Amount compensated by the insurer is known as Loss. Notice that all the claims need not turn out be losses. The loss is the compensation. It may broken into:
- Paid losses: the total amount already paid.
- Case reserves: an estimate of amount set aside to be paid to the claimant post some due diligence.
- Reported loss: Paid losses + Case Reserves
- Ultimate losses: The total amount of losses that will be settled in a completion after a period of time.

$Ultimate Loss = Reported Losses+ IBNR Reserve+IBNER Reserve$


Loss Adjustment Expense: costs incurred while processing and settling claims. They are of two types:
- Allocated loss adjustment expenses: Expenses directly attribute to a specific claim.
- Unallocated loss adjustment expenses: expenses that cannot  be tied to a specific claim.

They may also classified into: Defense and cost containment and Adjusting and other expenses.


Underwriting Expenses:
cost of acquiring and selling policies. They are of four types:
- Commission: 
- Brokerage:
- Taxes, Licenses and fees.
- General expenses.


Underwriting Profit:
Profit generated by the surplus of premiums (income) over expenses. Insurance makes income in two ways: Underwriting profit and Investment income (returns from earnings on investments).


Fundamental Insurance Equation.

As we saw earlier, Price = Cost + Profit.

In insurance industry, this becomes or translates into: 
- Premium = Losses + LAE + UW  expenses + UW profit.

Total Profit = UW profit + Investment Income.

Since, the pricing is to be done considering future costs in mind, the company must take view of the following changes:
- historical rate changes.
- Operational or structural changes in the org.
- Inflationary trends
- Changes in the mix of business or risk profile
- Legal and Regulatory requirements.

This adjustment of pricing or premium must happen at both macro and micro (Individual levels).

---

Basic Insurance Ratios:

- Frequency: No. of Claims/ No of Exposures.
- Severity: Total Losses/ Total no of Claims , (Paid Severity, Reported Severity).
- Pure Premium / Loss cost:  Losses / No of exposures. (Frequency * Severity)
- Average Premium: Premium / Number of Exposures.
- Loss ratio: Losses/ Premium (Pure Premium / Average Premium)
- Loss and LAE Ratio: (Losses + LAE)/ Premium

- Loss Adjustment Expense Ratio: Loss adjustment expenses / Losses.
Just think about: $Loss Ratio*(1+LAEratio)$

- Underwriting expenses Ratio: UW expenses / Premium.
- Operating Expense Ratio: UW Expense ratio + LAE/Earned_Premium

- Combined Ratio = Loss and LAE ratio + UW expenses / Written premium.
- Retention Ratio = number of policies renewed / Potential to be renewed.
- Close ratio = No of accepted Quotes / Number of Quotes.

---
     